So let's improve our application a little bit and for that I will start and Hmong would be actually.
And I just wanna make sure that I delete my user which I created before we hashed the password and which
day off was still has a plain text password stored this user here.
I will just delete it to have a cleaner database.
The average user as you can see has a hash password stored here it is.
So that's just a tiny fix however with that fix.
I will log in with that remaining user I have and create a new place again.
So the good old place we already know Marine plots in motion which is still a very nice place at least
for tourists.
The address is Marine plus one for me here.
And I will reuse that image I used before.
Click Add place and it will of course work.
Now we can also added and delete does as you learn as you saw before.
And that's all nice but anyone can do that here in our app.
Only we see these buttons if we would log in with a different user.
They would be gone because on the front that we have to say check when we render these buttons where
we check whether it be locked in user I.D. equals the creator I.D. of our places we have no such check
on the back end though they're in places controller when we delete a place I find a place I populate
its creator
and then I just go ahead and I try to delete it.
Now this might fail because I'm trying to also remove that place from the array of places mapped to
its creator.
But this is not guaranteed.
Most likely this will succeed.
And for updating here update place we're also not checking whether that place really belongs to the
user who sent the request.
We're just finding the place for editing it and we're saving it back.
So we have no checks on the back end to ensure that only the user who created a place is able to change
it.
I want to add such functionality though and just to again highlight the problem if I go to Atlas to
my places and pick the idea of a place which is stored here the place had just created and I didn't
go to postmen and send a patch request to this place and there I need to add the authorization header
here as well and set this to bearer and then a token.
And now I need a token of a user who did not create that place.
So for that back on the front end I will log out and create a brand new user manual who surprisingly
looks like me because I only have that image here and now they are all of course use a different email
address create that user and now I have manual as well and manual did not create my place.
So here in the app he doesn't see the buttons but of course I can use manual now to still edit the place
here.
For that I will just log manual in here with postman so sent my test that tested comment the right password
data to the log and root.
I get back a valid token because this log in of course succeeded and it can use this token now here
on the patch request as my token add here to bearer and now send the request to that place I created
on the average user.
So not on manual but on Macs to change it.
Marine plots and add multiple exclamation marks.
A great place if I do that and I hit send this succeeds it added that this and therefore on the app
when I reload here we see these changes.
Now that's exactly what I don't want.
So let's ensure this won't work anymore.
And for that on the back end let's add some extra security.
Let's start with updating here an update place.
The goal is to ensure that we only continue if the user who's sending the request is the user who created
the place.
Now the good thing isn't a check of middleware.
We are extracting user data and I'm storing the user I.D. here which is part of the token so that gives
us to user I.D. of the user who sent the request.
And this also can't be faked or anything by the client because it's part of the token.
And if you would change data in the token you would generate a new token which wouldn't be verifiable
anymore with this private key.
So it's 100 percent on faked data.
So we have that user I.D. stored in the user data object on our request and therefore here an update
place once we made it through the general validation we're looking for a place here and a place has
a creator field of course.
This one and this will be the idea of a user.
So then here we can just check if placed dot creator is not equal to request user data dot user I.D..
If that's the case we know they're not equal and therefore we know well this user did not create this
place and in that case I want to return an error of course.
You are not allowed to edit this place and this No actually is a 400 and one error because four hundred
and one which I used before actually is a authorization error.
I'll switch the other error codes in a second and we send back this error if we determine that this
user is not allowed to edit this place and only if we make it past his check.
So if the place was created by the right user we allow this change so now is saved as back end and I
tried as same update request again with the same token which still is valid here because it has been
less than an hour that I got it.
I get this error here not authorized now on the front end.
We can check the opposite if I log in with the user who did create that place who should be able to
edit it.
I see that button but now if I remove all the exclamation marks I also get this error.
So why is this not working does of course should be working right.
This is the correct user does this to write user.
Now this is not working because of the exact check we're running here what's instead of creator.
It's not a string that will equal this user I.D. here.
Instead it's an object of type Mongoose object Aidid is special I.D. type Mongoose knows.
So we have to convert it to a string by simply calling to string here which is a method that will be
available that will convert us to a string and then this comparison here should succeed.
So if we change this on the back end and we reload.
Now if we remove the exclamation marks here and I click Update place.
This succeeds.
So now the user who created this is able to edit it whilst the user who did not create it here if we
tested again and postman still gets narrower.
So this is now added authorization.
Now feel free to also add this on your own to delete.
I'll do it in the next lecture and their offer will also make sure that we use different HBP status
codes which is just a minor thing but still to reflect a right kind of off indication error we're having
where we're really not authenticated or maybe we are authenticated but we're not authorized.